The first step in deployment of the application is to
ensure that we have a running database.
If you remember from project generation,
I selected Microsoft SQL Server as the production database.
As a result, JHipster generated a docker file named mssql.
yml, in the folder src/main/docker.
Using docker, I can run an instance of Microsoft SQL server in a container,
rather than installing it on a server or locally.
Though, please evaluate the best option for your application.
Note again that I won't be showing you the
installation of docker in this course.
I'm displaying the full YML file that was generated,
but I want to just focus on one change that we need to make to the file.
Earlier,
we updated the application configuration to use a new
password for the SA account in the database.
As you can see,
the password will also need to be updated here for the SA account.
Let's do that now.
I've opened up Eclipse, and I have the mssql.
yml file in the editor.
Again,
we need to match the SA account password to the one that we set in
the application properties for this example.
Let's change the value to be Password with a capital P,
the number 1, and an exclamation point.
Okay, now our password matches the application configuration.
However, we still have one gap with the configuration.
This docker file will start up the database server,
but it won't pre- create the database for us.
Let's look at how we can go about doing that.
To create the database,
I'm going to use the tool Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio.
I'm not going to demonstrate installation,
however, you can download and install it from the bit.
ly link that I've provided.
You can also simply Google for the product name to find the download link.
Once you've downloaded and installed the tool, you can proceed.
Now that we have all the tools we need, let's get the database up and running.
I'll start with opening a command window to run the
Microsoft SQL Server docker container.
I'll be running the command, docker-compose.
I'll then include the docker file name using the -f flag,
include the up flag to denote that we're starting the container,
and the -d flag to run in detached mode from the console.
After the docker container is started,
I'll open up SQL Server Management Studio and demonstrate creating the
application database with the name PatientPortal.
Let's get started.
In order to run the SQL Server docker container,
there are two configurations that I needed to make to docker for Windows.
I'm displaying the docker settings form.
Start by clicking on Shared Drives.
Make sure to check your main drive to be Shared, then click Apply.
Next, click the Advanced tab.
You will need to increase the memory to be at least 4 GB, then click Apply.
With these settings in place,
we should be able to successfully run the database in docker.
I've opened a PowerShell window and navigated to the project directory.
To run the container I'm going to execute the
docker-compose command that I mentioned earlier.
And hit Enter.
Now note that this may take you time to download the image,
but once the command is finished, you can run the command of docker ps,
to assert that it's running.
And here we see that the container is up and running.
Now let's go ahead with creating the database.
I've opened up SQL Server Management Studio,
where I've been prompted with a login.
For this example, we're using the default Server name of localhost,
and Login of sa.
Let's enter the Password as capital P, the number 1, and an exclamation point.
Great.
I'm able to log in,
so that means the configuration for the password in the docker file worked.
Now, I need to expand the databases selection.
Next I'll right-click on Databases, and select a New Database.
I'm going to enter the database name as PatientPortal,
all as one word, with both Ps capitalized.
I'll leave the rest as the default, and click OK.
And our database got created.
Note that I'm going to use Liquibase to generate our schema,
but it's likely in a real production application that you'll deploy your
database schema through an automated script as the next step.
Now that the database is created and running, we can continue with application deployment.